Power 1:
  Expert's Eye: "This spell allows you to identify the general function of any object, including an Arcanum.  It will also reveal areas of weakness or particular value."
  Frozen Brain: "Target must pass a WIL Save to avoid being dazed for a turn."
  Pale Glow: "An object glows with a strange light.  Contact with the glowing object causes a point of damage per minute. The effect wears off when the spell is used again"
  Burden Soul: "Target may pass a DEX Save to avoid your touch. If touched they feel a weight on their very soul and lose 1d6 WIL."
  Unbreakable Seal: "One door, window etc. is magically sealed until you lift the spell."
  Obscuring Mist: "Mist surrounds you and all within 20ft. Any attacks into the mist suffer -2 to damage rolls. Strong fire or wind will disperse this."
  Red Oil: "Anyone moving or standing on the 10ft target area must make a DEX Save to avoid falling and being unable to move on their turn. Disappears in a harmless flash if ignited."
  Pain Curse: "Cause 1d6-1 damage, ignoring armour, and intense pain. The target must pass a WIL Save or only be able to scream for their next turn."
  Comprehension: "You can understand the spoken words of creatures or read otherwise incomprehensible written messages. In either case, you must touch the creature or the writing."
  Sunblessed: "Until you sleep you count as having Armour 2 but glow and hum faintly."
  False Charm: "Target must pass a WILL Save, or treats you as a friend for the rest of the day."
  Command Word: "Order a target to drop, fall, flee or halt unless they pass a WIL Save."

Power 2:
  Veil Senses: "Target must pass a WIL Save or is Blinded or Deafened until you lift the curse or they have a full rest. Blinded individuals subtract 2 from damage rolls."
  Binding Strands: "Strands spread between two surfaces up to 20ft apart. Those within only move very slowly unless they pass a DEX Save."
  Heat Ray: "A beam of fire causing 3d6 damage. Will sear a thin hole through even metal."
  Breath of Recovery: "Touch a creature and restore 1d6 points of lost STR, but take that much damage yourself."
  Invisible Grasp: "Hold one person still, unable to defend themselves, until they pass a WIL Save to break the curse."
  Phase Out: "You look like you aren't quite there.  Reroll any failed saves against Critical Damage until you take damage."
  Devil’s Roar: "All glass, crystal or ceramic objects within 5ft are shattered. In addition one object you are touching (wielder may avoid with a DEX Save ) is shattered. This object must be light enough for you to lift. Shattering an Arcanum like this causes you damage equal to the total Spell Power contained within."
  Uncanny Double: "A perfect duplicate of the caster or a target is formed. It acts just like them but is a visual illusion and cannot interact physically with anything. The double lasts until dismissed or a new double is created."

Power 3:
  Hypnotise: "Target must pass a WIL Save or carry out a single action until you say stop or they pass the Save on their turn. Cannot harm themselves."
  Inferno: "Cause a source of fire to explode, causing 3d6 damage to all within 20ft."
  Drain Life: "Reach out and touch a target. They must pass a DEX Save or lose 1d6 STR. You gain this many HP, up to your maximum."
  Burning Blood: "A wounded creature must pass a WIL Save or have their blood turned to acid. They take 1d6 damage, ignoring armour, each round until they pass the Save.  If the affected creature reduced to 0hp then those adjacent take 1d6 damage from acid spray."
  Ghost Form: "Yourself or an ally you touch and all equipment turn to an insubstantial, smoky form. You ignore any physical attacks. You can float and squeeze through holes but cannot manipulate objects and can be blown by a strong wind. Return to normal at will."
  Miniature: "Touch an object to shrink to one-sixteenth of its original size. Restore the object to original size at will. The original object can be up to your size."

Power 4:
  Black Tentacles: "Summon a 20ft area of STR 18 tentacles that lash out and attack. Anyone with reach must pass a STR Save to move away. The mass of tentacles has 10hp and can be destroyed ."
  The Madness: "All within 15ft of a point must pass a WIL Save or become confused. Roll 1d6 at the start of each turn until they pass the Save. 1: Attack the caster, 2: Act normally, 3: Do nothing, 4: Flee, 5: Attack nearest creature, 6: Attack nearest of their allies."
  Beast from Beyond: "Summon a horrific flying beast (STR 14, DEX 10, WIL 4, Armour 1, 10hp, 1d6+2 Damage) to fight for you until no enemies remain, after which you must pass a WIL Save to avoid it attacking you. Otherwise, it flies away."
  Babbletongue: "For one conversation you speak in a strange sounding language. Every living thing is able to understand and reply in the same tongue if they wish."
  Snakebite: "When you next cause Critical Damage in melee your opponent is bitten and loses 3d6 STR immediately."
  The Beast Within: "You take on a savage form (STR 18, DEX 14, Armour 2, 1d6+2 claws, retain WIL and hp), but lose the ability to speak. Return to normal form whenever you wish or when you sleep."

Power 5:
  Deathswarm: "20ft buzzing cloud moves 10ft away from you each round. Anyone caught within loses 1d6 STR. This continues every round the target spends in the cloud."
  Wither: "Reach out to touch a target. They must pass a DEX Save or lose 2d6 STR, reduced to a husk at STR 0."
  Dire Beasts: "Up to five animals double in size. They gain +1 Armour and melee damage. They also grow much more violent."

Power 6:
  Petrify: "Target must pass a WIL Save or lose 3d6 DEX. If this reduces their DEX to zero they are turned to stone."
  God Hand: "A giant hand appears between you and your target. The target cannot attack you and each round the target must pass a STR Save or be pushed 10ft away. The hand can be attacked and destroyed (STR 18, DEX 10, WIL 5, 15HP). The hand disappears when the target is defeated or has withdrawn."
  Master of Earth: "Over an hour you shift sand, soil or earth to your will, creating ditches up to 10ft deep. This may destabilise structures, redirect rivers and fell trees but will not affect rock, create tunnels or be fast enough to bury mobile opponents."

Power 7:
  Change Weather: "Cause the weather within a mile radius to change for the rest of the day. In the case of dangerous weather you cannot target specific individuals or locations or cause extremes that are inescapably lethal."
  Obliterate: "Choose a target and roll 3d6. If this is equal or higher than their current HP they are completely destroyed in a blast of fire."
  Cheat Death: "If successfully cast on a being's dead remains the target is miraculously restored to life, but permanently loses 1d6hp. If the spell fails the remains are utterly destroyed and the spell cannot be attempted on that target again."
  Teleport: "You and up to one companion are teleported to a location you have been to before."
  Weakening Wave: "All enemies within 20ft lose 2d6 STR."
  Spirit Commune: "Conjures a ghostly image of a dead target, which will speak with you clearly and willingly, regardless of language or intelligence. The image remains until dismissed."

Power 8:
  Mark of Madness: "Creates a symbol on any object. Anyone trying to read it loses 2d6 WIL."
  Earthquake: "Targets a 100ft area. All structures take 5d6 damage and caves or tunnels collapse, causing 2d6 damage per round to anyone within, until they escape."
  Mighty Servant: "A large object is animated and serves you unquestioningly. The object has STR 18, DEX 5, WIL 5, 10hp, Armour 2 and attacks for 2d6 damage. No more than one object can serve you at once."
  Forcefield: "Create a semi-transparent, shimmering surface that only you may pass through. Any enemy approaching within 20ft of the wall is blasted with light for 2d6 damage. The field lasts until dismissed."
  Iron Body: "You have Armour 3 and ignore fire and poison based damage. You can no longer swim but also do not need to breathe, eat or drink. Electric damage ignores your Armour. The effect lasts until dismissed."
  Dead Zone: "Creates a permanent zone one mile across where any living things lose 1d6 STR each hour, starting at the end of this hour. Living things within this zone are instantly aware of this and will try to leave. Even plants wither and die in this time."

Power 9:
  Rebuild: "Over an hour one damaged or ruined structure, ship or similar target is repaired to peak condition without need for materials."
  Inspire the Masses: "Anyone fighting alongside or for you immediately gain 1d6hp and STR."
  Divine Presence: "Anyone currently looking at you must pass a WIL Save or believe you are a god, serving you as such."
  Storm Being: "You turn into a bolt of lightning, moving at impossible speed to a specified location you can see. Anyone you pass through takes 3d6 damage, ignoring armour."
  Shapechange: "You shift to take the form of your target, retaining only your WIL score and general level of intelligence. This lasts until dismissed."
